---
date: 2025-06-03 23:16:00 +0900
title: "Weeknotes #281"
categories: ["weeknotes"]
---

- I wrote in an earlier draft of this week's update that I was worried that I might never get my My Number card ([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/My_Number_Card)). I partly wrote it with the hope that I was daring the universe to have the card arrive and it worked! Well, sort of. What I received was a notification letter that had a code that I needed to input into a reservation system to reserve a 'time' to come and get the card. Except the card is presumably always at the collection centre so why do I need to reserve a time? Why can't I just come down at any time to collect it? At first, I thought it was because there are in fact a number of collection centres and you needed to tell them which centre you want to collect the card from but no, I have a designated centre to collect it from and the system will reject any attempt to specify a different collection centre.

- In writing the above, I realised I didn't write about applying for it when I lodged the application. So in 2016, Japan introduced the Individual Number system ([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/My_Number_Card)). The system gave every resident an individual number but did not mandate that individuals obtain a physical card. I've resisted getting a card which is silly given that the my individual number has already been assigned. But whatever, humans aren't logical. And indeed, a lot of people in Japan avoided getting a card for the first few years but that's changed over time and a number of systems now treat you having a card as the default case. I wanted to change my address at a bank the other day and if I'd had a My Number card, that's all I'd need but since I don't, I need to show both a driver's licence and a copy of my residential registration showing my individual number (to get this would require me to go to my local ward office). So, yeah, you win this one I guess, universe. Or [Taro Kono](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Taro_Kono).

- Through the vagaries of fate, I was able to see _Mission: Impossible – The Final Reckoning_. I didn't think it was any great shakes but I am glad that it prompted an hour-long [chat with Brandon](https://sangsara.net/2025/06/01/week-22-25/) about what went wrong with the franchise. At one point in the discussion, Brandon mentioned he hopes for a TV series to eventually be spun off which is so obviously what should happen that I was kicking myself for not thinking of it. This is now my fervent wish for what they do next.

- I finally finished season two of _Severance_. It was really good and left me extremely conflicted with what I thought about the character of Mark (which, in this context, is a good thing). I'm looking forward to where things go in season three.

- I saw a link on Bluesky to Kirsten Drysdale's [video about a bench in a Chinese park](https://youtu.be/aSZ4RUFA7VQ). It's 12 minutes and just excellent. I hadn't heard of Drysdale's channel, 'The Internet, Reviewed', but watched a few of her other videos and liked those, too.

- Growing up in Australia in the late 80s, Kylie Minogue felt omnipresent. Then the early-90s happened and she went to England or something and just dropped completely off my radar. There was that [song with Nick Cave](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Where_the_Wild_Roses_Grow), that [brief period where she seemed in danger of becoming Goldfrapp](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Impossible_Princess) and then the triumphant comeback to pop stardom with 2000’s _Light Years_ and 2001’s _Fever_. In my mind, she was in her 40s when this happened and it was a real surprise that she still had it in her. This week I looked it up and she was 32 when ‘Can’t Get You Out of My Head’ came out ([Apple Music](https://music.apple.com/jp/album/cant-get-you-out-of-my-head/697414935?i=697415308&l=en-US)). 32! I’m a decade past that at this point. Time to admit my chance to record that crossover gay anthem has fully passed.
