---
date: 2025-06-24 23:00:00 +0900
title: "Weeknotes #284"
categories: ["weeknotes"]
---

- The United States bombed Iran on Sunday ([ABC News](https://www.abc.net.au/news/2025-06-22/donald-trump-says-us-bombed-three-iranian-nuclear-sites/105446590)). I’m writing this after a ceasefire has been announced (albeit one that might not last) so I have the benefit of some hindsight but the best analysis I’ve come across has been from a new podcast, Geopolitical Cousins (also available via a [YouTube channel](https://youtube.com/@geopoliticalcousins)). Marko Papic has argued that it’s unlikely that indications are that Trump does not want this to expand further. I hope he’s correct.

- In more mundane news, Mum, Emma, Rowan and I took a shinkansen down to Hamamatsu to spend a night at the Grand Mecure at Lake Hamana ([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lake_Hamana)). It was a strange place. Apparently nobody stays Friday and Saturday night because when we arrived at about 1 pm on Saturday afternoon there only five or so cars in the entire customer parking lot and I had that feeling you have whenever you enter any commercial establishment that is not long for this world. Turns out that was misplaced as within a handful of hours a full complement of hotel guests descended on the building. 

- It’s difficult to overstate how dramatic the change was and I’m still not entirely sure why. I can only assume it’s because of the onsen as there was precious little else to do in the hotel and the surrounding area was almost devoid of life. I have fond memories of walking the late evening streets of Urayasu as I listened to Accidental Tech Podcast last year (when [we were staying](https://updates.inqk.net/post/1718116920.html). No such experience this year as the street outside the Grand Mecure literally didn’t have streetlights.

- I wrote [last week](https://updates.inqk.net/post/1750170720.html) that I might buy a Mac Mini as part of a focus on writing an app for Apple platform. After posting that entry, I then decided not to do this and to instead focus on Japanese instead. Unfortunately, I didn’t remember to cancel the notification I had registered at [Refurb Tracker](https://refurb-tracker.com) and when an alert came through on Sunday afternoon saying that a Mac Mini with an M4 Pro was available, I pounced. I stand by my suspicion from last week that this was almost certainly not a good idea.

- A reason I gave last week for why it wasn’t a good idea was that I frequently am so tired after getting the kids to bed that I fall asleep on the sofa. Well, that happened again on Wednesday night _after I had ordered a pizza_. Fortunately, the pizza was to be picked up so I didn’t have the indignity of sleeping through a poor delivery driver waking everyone up in the house (which almost certainly would have happened). I got a call the next day from the Domino’s where I’d placed the order and couldn’t catch all of what I was being told. I knew I was meant to pick-up another pizza on Thursday night but not if that was complimentary or that I had to pay. A co-worker insisted it would be complimentary but I thought that couldn’t be right given that it was entirely my fault that the Wednesday pizza hadn’t been collected. She was right and I got a free pizza!

- I sent W. David Marx’s essay on the [throughline from Ashlee Simpson to Addison Rae](https://culture.ghost.io/the-pro-pop-ideology-from-ashlee-to-addison/) to Eugenia. She didn’t much go for it but maybe you will?

- I don’t know if this is a standard aspect to ageing but there are a number of bands that I listened to in the 2000s who completely dropped off my radar in the 2010s. Occasionally, Apple Music will suggest a song from this period and I’ll find myself utterly surprised that I had no idea this music existed. In this week’s case it was Goldfrapp and their 2013 album, _Tales of Us_. How had I never heard anything about this album until 2025? Take a listen to ‘Jo’ and see if takes your fancy ([Apple Music](https://music.apple.com/jp/album/jo/732329969?i=732330279&l=en-US)).
