---
date: 2026-07-10 23:29:00 +0900
title: "Weeknotes #338"
categories: ["weeknotes"]
---

- On Sunday, I took Rowan (and John) to get a haircut. I was really impressed with how Rowan handled it. I do still have to stand beside him and help him stay still but fortunately the barber is comfortable with me doing this. Have I written about Cut House Bright ([Google Map](https://maps.app.goo.gl/PbUcFxhhgAxiiBt9A)) before? I’m always worried it’s about to go out of business. It’s on the second floor in a dingy building, the decor is... rustic might be the kindest thing I can say and it doesn’t seem to have many customers. I started going there because it was very close to our old apartment and I was impressed with how quickly the barber cut my hair. When it was time to start taking John and Rowan to get haircuts, I thought the barber’s speed, together with the fact he didn’t seem awash in customers, might make him amenable to two boys who sometimes need some help to sit still. While I’m not sure he’s completely fine with me standing next to Rowan as he cuts his hair (John’s fine on his own), we seem to have come to an unspoken understanding that I’m not sure I could replicate with anyone else.

- Of course, as is tradition, after the haircut we then went to [Asobono](https://www.tokyo-dome.co.jp/en/asobono/). For the first time, Rowan wasn’t especially interested in the Plarail toys ([Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Plarail)). This might be because we now have some in the house. Yes, after years of resisting, we were gifted a small amount of track by a nearby biracial family who moved to the UK this week. Speaking of which, in a cruel bit of timing, Eri made friends with the mother of a nearby biracial family just before they moved to the UK this week. Alas.

- The oppressive summer heat is here. I ordered a thermal curtain that I hope might improve the heat flow in our living room. Probably the aspect of our house I dislike the most is the fact that the living room is on (what as an Australian I want to call the first floor but in sane counting systems is) the second storey. By itself, that’s not a problem. What makes it terrible is that the stairs that lead up to the room have no door or barrier at all. As a result, all the heat from downstairs rises up and all the cold air leaks down and the room is often a couple of degrees warmer than downstairs. I’m not sure the thermal curtain will do that much but you’ve got to be in it to win it. I think that’s how that phrase goes.

- Speaking of oppressive summer heat, I finally pulled the trigger and booked our flights to Australia for Christmas (I kid, Sydney summers are not oppressive at all compared to Tokyo). The ticket prices weren’t as bad as I had feared but they were still expensive and so I made sure to check not just ANA’s prices (our preferred airline) but also JAL and Qantas. Well, turns out Qantas was significantly cheaper and so after a decade or so since I swore never to fly with them again, we are flying with them again.

- I submitted Crossmate to the App Store for App Review. As of this writing, it has not yet entered review. I hope there aren’t any problems.

- I made a brief mention [last week](https://updates.inqk.net/post/1783090680.html) to the 1990 album, the _Simpsons Sing the Blues_ and [Brandon](https://sangsara.net) sent me an iMessage saying he’d had that album, too. That prompted a short discussion of what an odd piece of Simpsons merchandise it is. You can read more on the [Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Simpsons_Sing_the_Blues) or put it on for a spin ([Apple Music](https://music.apple.com/jp/album/the-simpsons-sing-the-blues/1443617811?l=en-US)). It’s... pretty weird.
